DAMON: Previously
on The Vampire Diaries...
Alaric's babies
are the future of the coven.
VALERIE: They would've protected them
in any way they could.
They're inside of you.
- Why are you here, Lorenzo?
- I'm here because of you.
- ENZO: Who's Julian?
- He was the love of my life.
Your grandchild was murdered by Julian.
(GRUNTS)
We bound Julian's life to mine.
We're linked. If he dies, so do I.
DAMON: Our mother faked her death,
left her sons behind,
started a new family, and
went out of her way to forget us forever.
As far as I'm concerned,
she deserves what she gets.
Did you know Valerie was once pregnant
with Stefan's child?
Valerie? No.
I love you, darling.
I would never hurt you.
You were right about Julian.
But I'm not gonna let him hurt us anymore.
I have a plan.
And this time, we won't get caught.
DAMON: (GROANS) Where am I?
That's right, Dallas.
Home of big hair and horrible presidents.
LILY: And the trap you just walked into.
Unfortunately, you're not the fly
I was hoping to catch.
(GROANS) So, the mystery guest
makes an appearance.
Why don't you do me a favor and...
Come a little closer,
so I can sort of see you.
Mom?
It's been a long time.
- STEFAN: What's the plan?
- Julian needs to die. Today.
Everything has to appear to be normal.
Julian's not an idiot.
If he finds out that Lily turned on him,
we're all dead.
So you embed her with a psychopath.
ENZO: Sounds logical.
DAMON: Don't look at me.
I voted to drive
a stake through her heart
and get rid of this Julian-Mama drama
once and for all.
But, hey, complicated Plan A
sounds like a happy compromise.
It's not complicated.
We get Julian's blood.
And then Nora, Beau or Mary Louise
use it to unlink him from Lily,
and we kill the bastard.
Uh... You glossed over the important bit.
Do you really think Beau, Mary Louise
or Nora are going to help?
- JULIAN: Okay, that's it!
-(COUGHS)
That's it. Nora is off pancake duty.
(GIGGLES) Me? You were the one
who wanted his chocolate chips to melt.
Melt. Not burn the house down
and kill us all.
Nobody is killing anybody before we eat.
I'm not wasting any of this food.
Oh! Darling, we woke you.
Aren't we having fun?
Julian treats Lily's heretics
as if they're his own royal children.
And they worship him right back.
They'll never turn on him.
The old stake through the heart's
lookin' like a pretty good alternative
right now, just sayin'.
Well, I guess the only way
we're gonna be able to pull this off
is to deploy the nuclear option.
Which is?
Me.
I know how to win them over to our side.
Oh! Great. Yeah, last I checked,
she was the black sheep of the family.
What are you gonna tell them
to make them feel otherwise?
The truth.
This looks like quite the feast.
What's the occasion?
- Don't tell me you forgot.
- Forgot what?
It's our anniversary.
Mary Lou and I have been together
for 133 years.
Of course, she remembered. (CHUCKLES)
In fact, it was Lily's idea
to host your party tonight.
Really? Lily Salvatore throws a party?
Let me guess,
we'll get drunk on tea and do needlepoint.
Oh, yes. Nothing says
"I've loved you for over a century,"
like falling asleep by 9:15.
Girls, girls, girls, girls, girls,
you're underestimating us.
I think,
they're in for a wonderful surprise.
- Don't you, my love?
- Yes.
Yes. Quite the surprise.
CAROLI N E: Dear, Elena-.
I'm pregnant.
Ridiculously long story short,
they're Ric and Jo's twin babies.
Magically transported into
my readily-available womb
by the Gemini coven.
I guess I thought writing to you
might help me figure out
how I'm supposed to feel
about the whole thing.
Because on one hand,
I know how much this means to Alaric
and on the other...
I have no idea what it means for me.
(CELLPHONE VIBRATES)
- Hey.
- Breaking news.
Remember all those people
Julian was stockpiling?
- MATT: They disappeared this morning.
- That's weird, where did they go?
That's what I'm working on.
Wanna cut class today
and help me get to the bottom of it?
CAROLINE: Actually, I can't.
I'm...
Turns out Valerie was right.
Wait, you're really pregnant?
Yep. (LAUGHS)
How did Stefan take it?
Oh! You know, totally supportive...
And just wanted to make sure
that I was okay.
At least that's how I'm hoping it goes
when I tell him today.
What are you doing here, Lorenzo?
Looking for the self-help section.
Seems I've developed feelings for someone
with terrible taste and yet,
I can't seem to shake her.
I need to get something
for Nora and Mary Louise's anniversary.
Nora used to
read this poem over and over again
when we were trapped together.
I believe it was called
The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd.
(EXCLAIIVIS)
"But could youth last
and love still breed
"Had joys no date nor age no need
"Then these delights my mind might move
"To live with thee and be thy love"
(CHUCKLES)
I had no idea you enjoyed poetry.
Well, there's a lot about me
that you haven't allowed yourself to know.
The Poems of Sir Walter Raleigh,
a proper Englishman.
This looks like a decent edition.
Do you really think some bauble
will convince the heretics
to side with you
over an evil step-daddy who spoils them
rotten with ponies and ice cream?
- I don't have a choice.
- Yes, you do.
Run. Leave town with me.
Let your sons carry out their plan
while you're off the grid.
Oh, Lorenzo.
I can't run from this. This is my doing.
You're not safe.
Come with me.
You know I can't do that.
But if you could?
If I could...
(SIGHS)
Good luck, Lily.
You'll need it.
(WIND CHIMES RING)
- I can't see a bloody thing...
- That's the point.
Julian, enough games.
(SIGHS)
As you wish.
(GUESTS CHEERING AND LAUGHING)
- This is epic. (LAUGHS)
- Who are all these people?
JULIAN: Friends. Food.
Whatever you want them to be.
They've all been compelled
to see to your every desire.
(CHUCKLES) But there are so many.
I've been collecting them
for this very occasion.
Are you ill? Lily would never allow this.
Come on, it's your anniversary.
Let's have a drink to celebrate.
(BITES AND MOANS)
What is going on here?
(GASPS)
Loosen up, darling. It's a party.
The rule is we may feed on trespassers.
One here. Maybe another there. But...
Where did all these people
come from, Julian?
They certainly didn't bus themselves in
to be our dinner.
See? I told you she was incapable of fun.
Come on, let's go
before she ruins our entire night.
However...
I suppose, since it's a special occasion,
we can make an exception.
See? Just like old times.
(PHONE VIBRATING)
Damon. Lily just texted me their location.
Let's do this.
Oh! Hi.
Hi!
I, uh, thought you were studying.
I was. But I'm here now. Surprise!
The Stefan Distraction Machine.
Please tell me you're not coming.
Coming where?
Nora and Mary Louise's anniversary.
Great, you're here, too. That's perfect.
What are you... What are you doing here?
I'm...
Spit it out, Blondie.
You know what?
Damon and I will go together.
Stefan can follow behind.
- What? No.
- Yes. Let's go.
Uh...
What was that all about?
(CHUCKLES)
We need to talk.
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(SIGHING) I know it's insane.
Magical baby transplants.
I didn't believe it either,
but then I ate nine ice-cream sundaes
from noon and three,
and none of my clothes fit,
and there was that whole part
with the doctor and the ultrasound, so...
Yeah.
You can say something.
I don't think there are any words.
I know.
- I have to go.
- What?
I mean, obviously,
we need to talk about this.
But we have this small window to get
to Julian tonight and this is sort of...
Bad timing. Trust me, I get it.
No, no, no. It's... I mean, yes. Yes.
But we will talk about it when I get back.
- Okay.
- Promise.
Where are you taking me?
Quiet. I need your opinion.
(SCOFFS)
Do you think she'll say yes?
She loves you. She would've said yes
when it would have gotten her beheaded.
Then why am I so nervous?
Probably because the love of your life
is far too vain to be wearing
whatever that tiny rock is,
reflecting light in that box.
Lily doesn't allow us
to leave Mystic Falls,
so my options were limited
to coal miner chic.
A relationship as beautiful as yours
deserves something a little better.
This belonged to a French royalty.
A princess, I think.
She was telling me as she lost her head.
(CLEARS TH ROAT)
It's perfect.
Well, the perfect ring
for the perfect couple.
(CHUCKLES)
I'm so happy for you both.
This is what I read to everyone
in that horrible prison world.
I thought
it would be a nice anniversary gift.
It reminds me of everything
we've been through together as a family.
Thank you, Lily. This is so special.
I love it.
Guess who?
The man I chose above all others.
I'll leave you two lovebirds alone.
Dance with me.
(TECHNO DANCE MUSIC PLAYING)
I have no idea
how to dance to this kind of music.
No, no, no. Fear not.
I bribed the DJ to play us a slow song.
(SLOW TEMPO SONG PLAYING)
Do you recognize it?
Should I?
Not the arrangement,
but perhaps the vocals.
I'll never forget that voice.
He used to sing so beautifully.
To think of everything
we've endured as a family.
And now we're together at long last.
Like old times.
Well, almost like old times.
You haven't been indulging
in any of the real fun.
No. I'm perfectly content with blood bags.
No, you're afraid.
Afraid of what?
Going all in.
Rejoining our family completely.
You keep holding onto the hope
that Stefan and Damon will love you again,
that we'll be one big happy family.
But we can't.
And that hope
is causing unwanted friction.
Take a look around.
You have
all the love that you need right here.
All you have to do is accept it.
Come back to us, Lily.
Let go and allow yourself to be the woman
that I fought through hell for.
(BITES)
(GASPS)
(HEAVY BREATHING)
(DOOR OPENS)
Looks like someone's having fun.
I had to feed.
I have to convince them
that I'm on their side.
Sounds like something
straight outta Rippers Anonymous.
Plan's postponed till further notice.
No,no,no,no.
Look, Valerie will get through to them.
The plan must go forward.
I can%spend
another minute with that man.
Fine.
Julian dies tonight.
But it's no skin off my back
if you're still linked to the guy
when I shove a stake through his heart.
Yes. You made that perfectly clear
when you tried to kill him yesterday.
What do you want from me, an apology?
Ain't gonna happen.
I'm only here
because Stefan's a momma's boy
and I don't want the silent
treatment for the next century.
LILY: I am your mother.
How can you be so cavalier about my life?
Because you're already dead to me, Lily.
I was 17. You went away.
I cried. I grew up.
You being here doesn't change any of that.
If I had to do it all over again, I'd have
left you in that damn prison world,
so I don't have to see your face again.
NORA: Mare.
This is gorgeous. Did you do all this?
Mostly.
Julian and Beau helped.
What's that?
A gift. For us.
"But could youth last
and love still breed
"Had joys no date nor age no need--"
Marry me.
133 years is not enough, Nora.
I want eternity.
(CHUCKLES)
Yes.
(CHUCKLES) Really?
Yes. Of course. Yes!
(BOTH LAUGHING)
(CHUCKUNG)
I'm happy for you two.
What are you doing here,
besides destroying
the greatest moment of my life?
We need to talk.
About the worst moment of mine.
-(BITES AND GRUNTS)
4GROANS)
MATT: Hey! Let her go.
So, so sorry, officer.
I found this one wandering about
and assumed she was of a
drinking age.
What the hell's wrong with you?
Let's just say I didn't get the girl.
I don't think the life-saving business
suits you, mate.
Yeah, why don't you tell that to the girl
whose throat you were about to tear out.
Yeah, yeah. I suppose that brings
your tally to a whopping one.
Damon didn't want you.
Lily didn't want you.
And this town never wanted you.
So what are you still doing here?
I might ask the same about you.
The heretics are throwing a murder party
in your precious hometown
and all you can manage to stop is my buzz.
You're overmatched.
You've brought a knife to a gunfight
and it's gonna be the death of you.
(MUFFLED GUNSHOT)
(GRUNTING)
(GRUNTS)
MARY: This is so typical.
Nora and I have one night a year
and Valerie can't stop herself
from trying to steal the spotlight.
This isn't about me.
It's about our family.
Hold on, where's Julian?
We should wait for him.
Julian won't be joining us.
Hell of a party.
Your mother would agree.
There's a kindergarten teacher
in the powder room to prove it.
Good old Mom.
Bet she made you think
she enjoyed it, too.
VALERIE: His face went cold.
I couldn't fight him off. I couldn't...
I couldn't stop him.
Julian beat me savagely.
And when it was finally over
my baby was dead.
Murdering my child
wasn't just some violent whim.
It was a calculated, manipulative act.
What are you boys doing here?
It's an anniversary party.
So we figured we'd come support
the pretty one and her mean girlfriend.
MARY: This doesn't make sense.
Why would Julian do such a thing?
What did he stand to gain?
LILY; Me.
I would have never gone to Europe with him
had I known about my grandchild.
- Grandchild?
- Stefan was the baby's father.
VALERIE: I couldn't cope.
I took my own life
and became the first heretic.
And when Julian saw how powerful I was,
he wanted more.
We're his army, we're not his family.
We always have been.
Lily, is that true?
I believe every word Valerie said.
When she told me what happened to her,
it was as if
all the lights in the room went on.
I could finally see Julian
for who he really is.
That's why I'm leaving him.
But she can't do it without your help.
So the question is...
Who do you believe?
(SNIFFLES)
Mare. You heard what she said.
What are you waiting for?
I'm sorry. It's just...
This is a lot to take in.
That's why we stick together.
We're family.
(SNIFFLES)
Beau, give me your hand.
- What is she doing?
- Bracing herself.
For what?
(GRUNTS)
Lily, you're bleeding.
(GASPS)
It's about to get a lot worse.
(GRUNTING)
(GASPS AND PANTS)
STEFAN: Let's tie him up.
Damon's tying up Julian right now.
I got his blood.
Good. They're waiting for it
in the green house.
Caroline's pregnant.
Yeah, I didn't really know
what to say either.
Do I even want to know how this happened?
Gemini spell.
Twins.
Not mine, obviously.
Wow.
You must be overwhelmed.
Well, I didn't exactly handle things
the right way.
You have any advice?
Tell her you love her.
LILY: Never forget
what she must be going through.
And then, one day...
Be prepared for her
to sacrifice everything for them.
Not that I'm one to give advice.
I chose Julian over everything.
Yeah, but now he's going to die.
And you can start over without him.
It's too late.
- So much has already been lost.
- You haven't lost me.
Really?
I guess“.
Willingness to forgive the unforgiveable's
in my genetics.
Unfortunately, Damon doesn't feel
the same way about forgiveness.
Well, you were the first woman
to break his heart.
He's put up a wall ever since,
but you can take it down.
No.
He's gone.
I saw it in his eyes.
- He wishes me dead.
-(SCOFFS)
Do you think that
I haven't seen that look before?
Damon's been practicing that look on me
for the last 150 years.
(CHUCKLES)
Well, then maybe you could offer
your mother a little advice in return.
How do I get him back?
Time.
JULIAN: My mind is boggled by this
blind devotion you have for Lily.
I mean, the woman mused up an idea
to keep you away from your soul mate
-for what, 60 years? 70 years?
- Stop talking.
And yet, here you are,
essentially risking your life to be here
with me in order to keep her alive.
Don't listen to him.
He knows he's dead either way.
But if he can provoke you to kill him now,
then you spend eternity
as the boy who killed his own mother.
Aren't you a clever girl.
It's a shame...
I suppose your little one would have had
the same smarts--
(LAUGHS)
Rot in hell, Julian.
What is this?
Apparently whoever wins at foosball
gets to kill me.
It's pinball and I have the high score.
Did you break that link yet?
How do I know that you were pregnant
with Stefan's child?
Are you testing me?
Do you really believe I'd make that up?
You lied to Lily
about your affair with Stefan.
Just like you lied to us
about killing Oscar.
So why should I believe
that you're telling the truth, now?
All right, Nancy Grace, enough.
Let the adults handle this.
-(YELLS)
- What are you doing?
(GROANING)
(LAUGHS)
And that, Mary Louise,
is why you've always been my favorite.
(EXHALES IN RELIEF)
(PHONE RINGING)
Well, you're either really drunk,
or calling to tell me
that you found a new girlfriend.
None of the above.
Although a drink does sound really good
right about now.
(CHUCKLES)
Yeah, tell me about it.
Listen, I'm really sorry about earlier.
STEFAN: I didn't know what to say
and I didn't want to say the wrong thing,
so I just...
I bailed.
Well, I guess there is no right thing
to say when you find out
your girlfriend is magically pregnant
with another man's babies.
(SCOFFS)
CAROLINE: Look, I know that
this is happening to both of us,
and you stood by me through
everything I went through with my mom.
So I totally get it
if you want to run for the hills.
I'm not going anywhere.
Because I love you.
(SIGHS IN RELIEF)
I guess there is a right thing to say,
after all.
Listen, no matter how weird this all gets,
I'm here for you.
And we're going to
get through this together.
Are you sure?
'Cause it could get really weird.
- I'm positive.
- Okay.
And I love you, too.
Mare, hey. Where are you going?
We still need to unlink Lily.
- I have to get out of here.
- Mare, stop.
You've been crying. What happened?
Oh, my God...
Things have grown out of hand, Lily.
- Enough is enough.
- What are you doing? Let them go.
I can't.
If I do, this bloody cycle will continue.
And I love you, and the family
that we have built together,
far too much for that to happen.
JULIAN: So.
One lives, one dies.
You have to choose which.
- I will do no such thing.
- Oh, but you will.
You have spent far too long
trying to have it all.
The lies, the violence...
All because you wanted the impossible.
Well, the truth is, you're either
a Salvatore or you're one of us.
But you cannot be both.
Choose.
NORA: How could you do that to Lily?
How could Valerie have done
what she has to us?
She hasn't been truthful
about anything, Nora.
Her relationship with Stefan? Lies.
Killing Oscar? More lies.
- This is different.
- Of course you would think that.
He took her child from her.
And you would side with him?
And you would side with the girl
who murdered her own brother?
- No. What are you doing?
- This doesn't represent our love.
It represents Julian's ability
to manipulate us.
- I don't want it.
- Nora, please. Don't--
- I don't want any of it.
- Nora. Nora!
This isn't you.
This is not the man
that I fell in love with.
LILY: You used to be kind. Gentle. Funny.
No, no, you...
You're still in shock from the hell
that you've been trapped in for so long...
Hell didn't turn him evil, Lily.
- He was born this way.
- Okay...
This vervain stings like a bitch
and your family drama makes
the prospect of hell look like Disneyland.
So, please, one swift stab.
Straight through the heart.
Let's get this over with.
You chose your heretics over
Stefan and me every chance you've had.
Why stop now?
Lily, please...
LILY: You are such a strong girl.
I am so sorry I didn't see it sooner.
My son.
Please forgive me.
Kill me.
Come on, do it, Lily.
You're wrong about so many things.
I never had the courage
to tell you before,
but I do now.
You are wrong, Julian...
I can choose them both.
(GASPS)
No, Lily!
- Lily!
-(PANTING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
My sweet, foolish girl.
I've already unlinked us.
(GASPS)
- No.
- Lily.
(WHIMPERING)
Save your strength.
You're full of vervain
and you couldn't break out of here
on your best day.
- What the hell did you do?
- I took your advice.
You see, you're right.
I can't protect Mystic Falls on my own
so I made some friends who could help.
- And who are these friends?
- Sorry, I can't tell you.
See, they'd like to introduce themselves.
I guess I was wrong.
Someone wanted you, after all.
(CLANGING)
The splinters must be inside your heart...
I can't get them out!
Nora...
It's all right...
What do I do? Tell me what to do.
You say goodbye.
We wouldn't be a family without you, Lily.
I love you. I am so sorry this happened.
Goodbye.
(SIGHS)
I guess only one of us
gets the luxury of time.
Promise me
you'll use yours to the fullest.
-(YELLING)
-(SHATTERING)
Nora gave me back the ring.
What is all this?
JULIAN: Lily...
She staked herself in the heart.
What?
She thought that killing herself
would kill me.
She didn't realize
that you had already unlinked us.
I thought breaking the spell
would protect her.
If her sons succeeded in killing me,
she would be spared.
But instead...
No. Tell me this isn't real.
- Tell me this isn't happening!
- She's gone, Mary Louise. She's gone!
(GASPS)
VALERIE: I forgive you for
loving him, Lily.
You just wanted to love us all.
There is no sin in that.
She only has moments left.
Make the most of them.
Damon...
LILY: I'm truly sorry.
Say something.
(EXHALES)
You made your bed.
Have a nice nap.
Mom?
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
Are you still here?
-(CHAINS CLINK)
%GROANS)
I'm so sorry.
I don't think I can save you.
You've been poisoned with werewolf toxin.
Without proper treatment, you'll die soon.
Okay, Mom, listen.
While you're still here,
there's something
that's been nagging at me
for a long time.
I'm so sorry.
(SCOFFS)
Mom?
Wow!
You must really be having a bad trip.
Your mother's been dead for years.
You're not my mother.
(GRUNTS)
(CLOSING MUSIC PLAYING)
English - SDH